Welcome back.
In this lesson,
you'll learn about a new class.
A very important part of Java that
combines essential features of
the storage resource class, and an array.
In fact, this new class,
the ArrayList is the foundation of how
the stored resource class is implemented.
To motivate the problem,
think about counting how many different
words there are in a file or a webpage.
But the same problem is encountered in
finding the number of unique IP addresses
to visit a website in a day, a key part of
charging a company for online advertising.
You've seen how to count the number of
each type of nucleotide in digitized DNA.
And you used an array to count
the number of occurrences
of each alphabetic character
in cracking a Caesar cipher.
These are first steps in counting how
many times each word occurs in a file?
How many times the occurs or
cat or the word albatross?
One important part of solving that problem
is finding how many different words there
are, so that the counts as one word,
rather than 573,
if it occurs that many times in document.
If the image below In the image below,
there are only three different digits,
four, six, and seven, even though
there are hundreds of digits shown.
We'll look at StorageResource as
a way of solving this problem.
First, we'll count the total number
of words in a file or web page.
The class StorageResource makes this easy.
To count the words in a file or
web page you'll iterate over either
a file resource or URL resource.
As you can see in the highlighted code,
iterating over a file or
webpage using these resources
uses nearly identical code.
And here you see that simply
calling the dot add method
adds each word to the StorageResource
instance variable my words.
When done, the .size method will
provide the total number of words read.
The method .getCount returns
this number when called again,
using the instance variable myWords, which
was initialized in the constructor and
added to in the method readWords.
As you'll see, it's easy to use
StorageResources to count the number of
different words.
Not simply the total number of words.
This code can be easily modified
to find the number of unique or
different words in a file or webpage.
The field, myWords,
whose type is storage resource,
can store all the words as you've just
seen and as shown in the code here.
The .add method adds every
string read to myWords.
But it's simple to guard
the call to .add with code that
only calls .add when the word is seen for
the first time.
When it hasn't been stored in myWords yet.
The .contains method
returns a Boolean value.
And the code here, this value is used to
ensure that the .add method is called only
when the storage research object
my words does not contain a word.
However, the storage research
class is not a good choice for
choosing elements at random.
The key part of the story telling
code glad lids we're working on.
To choose an element at random,
we must use the iterable interface
that StorageResource provides.
This means we use a loop
to access every element
in the StorageResource object myWords.
In the loop here, we'd really like to
iterate as many times as the values stored
in variable choice, because we want to use
a random element of the StorageResource.
The code here returns a random string
when the value of counter reaches zero.
As you can see in the code,
the value of choice must reach zero
because it starts at a value less
than the size of my words and
it's decremented by one
each time through the loop.
However, the Java compiler analyzes
the loop with an IF statement, and
doesn't know that it's possible.
The if statement must
be true at some point.
The compiler indicates it's an error
to be missing a return statement,
after the loop even though that
part of the code is never reached.
It would be simpler to code, and much,
much faster to use a string array to get a
random element, as shown in the code here.
We simply generate a random manager and
use that as an index into the array.
Unfortunately, we must specify the
capacity of an array when we declare it.
Arrays do not grow in the way that
a storage resource object grows.
The class array list
provides a solution and
combines the best feature of
storage resource and arrays.
The class ArrayList is from
the java.util package.
The same package that contains
the random class we've used.
An ArrayList expands its capacity as
needed when it's .add method is called,
just like a StorageResource object.
An ArrayList also provides access via
indexing, so that the zeroth or 101st
element can be accessed without iterating
over all elements just like an array.
The StorageResource class
uses an ArrayList internally.
In fact, it's simply a little
easier to use than an ArrayList but
as you become more experience, you're
now able to use ArrayList which stores
any kind of object, not just strings.
The basic syntax of the ArrayList
class is shown here.
But you'll see it used in a coding
example in the next lesson.
To declare an ArrayList variable,
you must include the type of object
stored in the ArrayList using
the angle brackets as shown here.
Like any object,
creating one requires calling new and
providing the class name as
a constructor to create and
initialize the object that's shown here,
and assigned to the variable words.
Then you can call the .add method to
add strings to the ArrayList object.
And you can call the .get method to
access a particular element via indexing.
Just like the bracket
notation used with an array.
But with an ArrayList,
you'll use the .get method.
The .set method can change or
set the element at a particular
index in the array list object.
Here the first or zeroth indexed
element is set to the string goodbye.
We'll see more examples as we go through
a coding example with ArrayList.
The ArrayList class is more
powerful than StorageResource and
can sort any kind of object.
It will be an essential class in
solving many problems with Java.
Thank you.